= roda-route_list

The Roda route_list plugin reads route information from a json
file, and then makes the route metadata available for
introspection.  This provides a workaround to the general
issue of routing trees being unable to introspect the routes.

== Installation

  gem install roda-route_list

== Source Code

Source code is available on GitHub at https://github.com/jeremyevans/roda-route_list

== Basic Usage

This plugin assumes that a json file containing the routes
metadata has already been created.  The recommended way to
create one is to add comments above each route in the Roda
app, in one of the following formats:

  # route: /path/to/foo
  # route: GET /path/to/foo
  # route: GET|POST /path/to/foo/:foo_id
  # route[route_name]: /path/to/foo
  # route[route_name]: GET /path/to/foo
  # route[foo]: GET|POST /path/to/foo/:foo_id

As you can see, the general style is a comment followed by
the word route.  If you want to name the route, you can
put the name in brackets.  Then you have a colon.  Optionally
after that you can have the method for the route, or multiple
methods separated by pipes if the path works with multiple
methods.  The end is the path for the route.

Assuming you have added the appropriate comments as explained
above, you can create the json file using the roda-parse_routes
executable that came with the roda-route_list gem:

  roda-parse_routes -f routes.json app.rb

Assuming you have the necessary json file created, you can then
get route information:

  plugin :route_list

  # Array of route metadata hashes
  route_list # => [{:path=>'/path/to/foo', :methods=>['GET', 'POST']}]

  # path for the route with the given name
  listed_route(:route_name) # => '/path/to/foo'

  # path for the route with the given name, supplying hash for placeholders
  listed_route(:foo, :foo_id=>3) # => '/path/to/foo/3'

  # path for the route with the given name, supplying array for placeholders
  listed_route(:foo, [3]) # => '/path/to/foo/3'

The +listed_route+ method is also available at the instance level to make it
easier to use inside the route block.

=== Automatically Updating the Routes Metadata

==== On Heroku

You can get this to work on Heroku by hooking into the facility for
precompiling assets.  If this consider your route list an asset, this
makes sense.  You just need to add an assets:precompile task, similar to
this (or add the code an existing assets:precompile task):

  namespace :assets do
    desc "Update the routes metadata"
    task :precompile do
      sh 'roda-parse_routes -f routes.json app.rb'
    end
  end

==== Otherwise

At the top of your Roda app file, or at least before you create the Roda app
subclass, just call the <tt>roda-parse_routes</tt> program:

  # app.rb
  system 'roda-parse_routes', '-f', 'routes.json', __FILE__
  require 'roda'

  class App < Roda
    # ...
  end

== License

MIT

== Maintainer

Jeremy Evans <code@jeremyevans.net>
